docs: Improve getting started (#1095)
vercel/turborepo: docs/pages/docs/getting-started.mdx

---
title: Getting Started with Turborepo
description: Create your first monorepo or add Turborepo to an existing project.
---

import Callout from "../../components/callout";
import Beta from "../../components/beta";
import { Tabs, Tab } from '../../components/Tabs'

# Overview

Turborepo is a build system for JavaScript and TypeScript monorepos: codebases containing multiple projects, often using multiple frameworks, in a single unified code repository. Monorepos have many advantages, but they require appropriate tooling in order to scale. Turborepo leverages advanced build system ideas and techniques to speed up development, without the configuration and complexity. By abstracting the configurations, scripts, and tooling, Turborepo allows you to start shipping fast.

You can incrementally adopt Turborepo for new and existing projects. To create a new monorepo, get started with:

```sh
npx create-turbo@latest
```

> You can also clone a Turborepo starter repository to get a head start on your project. To see Turborepo examples and starters, see the [Turborepo examples directory on GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/blob/main/examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also clone a Turborepo starter repository to get a head start on your monorepo. To see Turborepo examples and starters, see the [Turborepo examples directory on GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/tree/main/examples).
```

- NetBSD AMD64
- Android ARM 64-bit

## Configure workspaces

`turbo` is built on top of Workspaces, a way of managing multiple packages from within a single root package. Turborepo is compatible with the workspace implementations from all package managers. For more information on managing your Turborepo workspaces, see the [Workspaces](./core-concepts/workspaces) documentation.

> You can configure workspaces whatever way you want, but a common example folder structure is keeping applications in the `/apps` folder and packages in the `/packages` folder. The configuration of these folders is different for each package manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure workspaces any way you want, but a common folder structure example is keeping applications in the `/apps` folder and packages in the `/packages` folder. The configuration of these folders is different for each package manager.
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The `turbo` package is a little shell that will install the proper `turbo-<os>-<arch>` package for you operating system and architecture.

## Create `turbo.json`

> In your project directory, create an empty file named `turbo.json`. This will hold the configuration for Turborepo in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the root of your monorepo, create an empty file named `turbo.json`. This will hold the configuration for Turborepo.
```

If your git repo's base branch is not `origin/master`, then you need to specify a `baseBranch` too. For example, `origin/main`.

```json filename="./turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "baseBranch": "origin/main"
}
```

## Create a `pipeline`

> To define your project's task dependency graph, use the [`pipeline`](./features/pipelines) key in the `turbo.json` configuration file at the root of monorepo. `turbo` interprets this configuration to optimally schedule, execute, and cache the outputs of each of the `package.json` scripts defined in your workspaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define your monorepo's task dependency graph, use the [`pipeline`](./features/pipelines) key in the `turbo.json` configuration file at the root of monorepo. `turbo` interprets this configuration to optimally schedule, execute, and cache the outputs of each of the `package.json` scripts defined in your workspaces.
```

> The `turbo` package is a little shell that will install the proper `@turborepo/*` packages.

Author: ```suggestion
The `turbo` package is a little shell that will install the proper `turbo-<os>-<arch>` package for you operating system and architecture.
```

      "outputs": [],
      // A package's `test` script should only be rerun when
      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed in `src` or `test` folders.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
      // A package's `lint` script has no dependencies and
      // can be run whenever. It also has no filesystem outputs.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
      // A package's `deploy` script depends on the `build`,
      // `test`, and `lint` scripts of the same package
      // being completed. It also has no filesystem outputs.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

The rough execution order for a given package based on the `dependsOn` keys:

1. `build` once its upstream dependencies have run their `build` commands
2. `test` once its _own_ `build` command is finished and has no filesystem outputs (just logs) within a package
3. `lint` runs in an arbitrary order as it has no upstream dependencies
4. `deploy` once its _own_ `build`, `test`, and `lint` commands have finished.

After execution, the full pipline can run:

```sh
npx turbo run build test lint deploy
```

> `turbo` will then schedule execution of each the tasks to optimize usage of the machine's resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`turbo` will then schedule the execution of each task(s) to optimize usage of the machine's resources.
```

      // (and not the monorepo root)
      "outputs": [".next/**"]
    },
    "test": {
      // A package's `test` script depends on that package's
      // own `build` script being completed first.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
      // A package's `test` script should only be rerun when
      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed in `src` or `test` folders.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
      // A package's `lint` script has no dependencies and
      // can be run whenever. It also has no filesystem outputs.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
      // A package's `deploy` script depends on the `build`,
      // `test`, and `lint` scripts of the same package
      // being completed. It also has no filesystem outputs.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

The rough execution order for a given package based on the `dependsOn` keys above will be:

1. `build` once its dependencies have run their `build` commands
2. `test` once its _own_ `build` command is finished and has no filesystem outputs (just logs)

> 3. `lint` can run whenever and has no filesystem outputs (just logs)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. `lint` runs in an arbitrary order as it has no upstream dependencies.
```

> 4. `deploy` once its _own_ `build`, `test`, and `lint` commands have finished, no outputs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Finally, `deploy` executes once its _own_ `build`, `test`, and `lint` commands have finished.
```

The full pipeline can then be run:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> npx turbo run build test lint deploy

Reviewer 3: We should not be recommending that people run this via `npx`, that's a download of `turbo`, executing a script, a download of `turbo-windows-arm64`, and then finally execution.

We should add a separate section about doing installation.

Reviewer 4: @nathanhammond if you want to contribute that section to this PR please feel free to! 😄

```

> Turborepo will then efficiently schedule execution minimizing idle CPUs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`turbo` will then schedule execution of each the tasks to optimize usage of the machine's resources.
```

+ .next/**
```

> Now re-run your NPM client's install command just to be sure. You should be good to go now.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This was accidentally duplicated.

## Create `package.json` scripts

> Add or update `scripts` in your root `package.json` to call `turbo` scripts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add or update `scripts` in your root `package.json` and have them delegate to `turbo`!.
```

```jsonc filename="./package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "turbo build",
    "test": "turbo test",
    "lint": "turbo lint",
    "dev": "turbo dev"
  }
}
```

## Run stuff!

> <Tabs items={['NPM', 'Yarn', 'PNPM']} storageKey="selected-pkg-manager">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Tabs items={['npm', 'Yarn', 'pnpm']} storageKey="selected-pkg-manager">
```

  <Tab>

>     ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

    npm run build
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>

>     ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

    yarn  build
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>

>     ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```
